Recording data for evaluation

This tutorial shows how to record sample data sets with the

rc_visard

 as single snapshots or image sequences.

In order to go through this tutorial, the

rc_visard

 must be running the latest firmware (version 23.04). This can be
verified on the System ‣ Firmware & License page of the Web GUI.

Downloading single snapshots

The recommended way to capture a snapshot of the current scene is via
the rc_visard's Web GUI.

For evaluation of use-cases and support, Roboception requires
snapshots taken from the

Depth Image

 page of the Web GUI.

A new snapshot of the current scene is downloaded by clicking on the
camera icon below the image live streams (see

Fig. 9

). This will create an archive containing the left and right camera
images, the disparity, error and confidence images, as well as the
current point cloud as a ply file, and the rc_visard's current
parameters.


The steps below describe the optimal sensor setup before capturing
snapshots:

   In the Camera page of the Web GUI  make sure that the Exposure is
   set to Auto  optionally set an Exposure Region around the objects
   of interest

Steps 2 to 5 only apply to users of the

rc_randomdot

 projector

   In the Camera page of the Web GUI, set the Auto Exposure Mode to
   AdaptiveOut1

   Follow the Obtain dense depth images with the rc_randomdot
   projector tutorial to configure the projector

   In the Depth Image page of the Web GUI  select Single+Out1 as
   Acquisition Mode  increase the Exposure Adaptation Timeout to the
   maximum (2 seconds)  press the Acquire button a few times

   Back on the Camera page of the Web GUI  check that the Out1
   Reduction value reported below the live image streams is below 50%.
   If not, decrease the aperture of the rc_randomdot projector, or add
   more light to the scene.  increase the Min Brightness value, if the
   images appear too dark

Final verification steps for all users

   Check that the Gain reported below the live image streams in the
   Camera page is as low as possible (ideally 0 dB). The Gain can be
   decreased by adding more light to the scene.

   Check that the Confidence Image in the Depth Image page is bright
   on the objects of interest. If not, follow the steps described in
   the Increasing Density tutorial.

Note: Users of the

  rc_reason

   software modules have also the possibility to download snapshots of
  the last detection from each module’s page in the Web GUI (currently
  available for LoadCarrier, ItemPick, BoxPick, and
  SilhouetteMatch).These snapshots should be provided to Roboception
  in addition to Depth Image snapshots, captured as described above.

Recording image sequences

Note: The following instructions are only applicable if you want to
  download image sequences (image streams) from the

  rc_visard

  . For recording single snapshots, follow the approach above.

Before we start

Before going through this tutorial, the following prerequisites should
be met.

-[ The

rc_visard

 is up and running: ]-

The rc_visard is running and connected properly to the host. One can
verify that with our discovery tool.

One should know the serial number or user defined name of the
rc_visard. The serial number is of the format 029xxxxx. It will be
referred to as rc_visard_id in the remainder of this tutorial.

-[ Download and install the following required client software: ]-

Linux

Download rc_genicam_api

Download rc_dynamics_api

For Ubuntu, we provide ready-to-use Debian packages.

Windows

For Windows, all required software is bundled with the recording
scripts, so no download is necessary.

-[ Optional software for viewing the recorded images can be installed:
]-

Linux

Download

cvkit

.

For Linux, it is easiest to download the source code and build it by
entering the main directory and typing:

   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   make
   sudo make install

Images can be viewed using the viewer "sv". Disparity images, i.e.
with the suffix

.pfm

 can be viewed in 3D by pressing 'p' or calling "plyv" with the
disparity image as argument. Both tools show a help page with all key
codes by pressing 'h'.

Windows

Download

cvkit

.

For Windows, pre-compiled software is available in a ZIP archive. The
archive contains a self-installing executable.

After installation, images can be viewed by double clicking on them in
the explorer. Disparity images, i.e. with the suffix

.pfm

 can be viewed in 3D by pressing 'p'. Both tools show a help page with
all key codes by pressing 'h'.

-[ The network configuration is optimized: ]-

Enable "Jumbo frames" by setting the MTU to 9000.

Ubuntu

-[ Temporarily ]-

Enter the following command in the terminal.

   ifconfig <interface> mtu 9000

-[ Persistently ]-

Open the network manager

Select interface and edit settings

On "Ethernet" tab, change MTU to 9000

Windows 10

Open "Network Connections"

Right-click on the network interface

Choose "Properties"

Click "Configure"

On the "Advanced" tab, choose "Jumbo Packet"

Select "9014 Bytes"

Recording data

We provide scripts for Linux and Windows to record data in our
"rc_visard_offboard_record"

GitHub repository

.

The script offers two modes: An interactive mode that is started if
the script is launched via a double-click or called without any
arguments from a terminal/command line window. In that mode, the user
is asked by the script for the "rc_visard_id". In standard mode, in
contrast, the "rc_visard_id" is passed to the script as command line
argument, optionally next to other arguments.

Each time, the script runs, it creates a new folder in the working
directory (i.e. the place the script was started in) and writes all
data to that folder. The folder's name is of the format "rc-
visard_<SN>_<T>", where "<SN>" is replaced by the "rc_visard_id" and
"<T>" by the current time. The images are stored in PGM or PPM format,
which are supported by many image viewers. All other files are stored
as text.

Caution: On Windows, proper configuration of the firewall is
  important. On the first run of the script, the user will be asked
  whether the "rc_genicam_api" and "rc_dynamics_api" tools should be
  allowed to access the network. This needs to be allowed, otherwise
  the script will not work properly. In case of problems with data
  recording, temporarily disabling the firewall can help to pinpoint
  the source of the problem. It may be necessary to manually whitelist
  "gc_info.exe", "gc_config.exe" and "gc_stream.exe" that are located
  in the folder "rc_genicam_api-*", and "rcdynamics_stream.exe" that
  can be found in the folder "rc_dynamics_api-*".

Interactive mode

Start the script via double-click. The script asks for the
"rc_visard_id", i.e. the serial number (which is of the format
029xxxxx) or user defined name. By entering "L", all available

rc_visard

 devices are listed. Interactive mode does not allow changing of
script parameters other than the "rc_visard_id". If that is required,
the standard mode should be chosen, as it offers more flexibility.

Standard mode

In standard mode, the script is called from a terminal/command line
window.

The basic usage is as follows:

Linux

Open a terminal.

Change to the script folder.

Launch the rc_visard_record.sh:  ./rc_visard_record.sh [options]
<rc_visard_id>

Windows

Open a terminal.

Change to the script folder.

Launch the rc_visard_record.bat:  rc_visard_record.bat [options]
<rc_visard_id>

The script offers optional arguments, which can be listed with the
*-h* flag:

Linux

   ./rc_visard_record.sh -h

Windows

   rc_visard_record.bat -h

By default, the script will run until it is stopped with "Enter" and
record images from the left camera, disparity images, confidence
images and error images.

This behavior can be changed by passing different arguments to the
script. For example, to record only the left camera images and stop
after 10 images, the following command can be used:

Linux

   ./rc_visard_record.sh --number=10 --left=true --right=false --disparity=false --confidence=false --error=false <rc_visard_id>

Windows

   rc_visard_record.bat -n 10 -left true -right false -disparity false -confidence false -error false <rc_visard_id>

The "cam-params" argument allows to also record the current camera
parameters including the camera calibration. It will write the
parameters to the given file, below called *params.txt*.

Linux

   ./rc_visard_record.sh --cam-params=params.txt <rc_visard_id>

Windows

   rc_visard_record.bat -cam-params params.txt <rc_visard_id>

The script also supports recording of the SLAM trajectory, which can
be enabled with the "slam" argument. The script will automatically
start and stop SLAM, and eventually write the trajectory to the given
file (*trajectory.json* in the example). The trajectory is written
when image grabbing is finished, which is either when the user presses
"Enter" or enough data sets are recorded according to the "number"
argument.

Linux

   ./rc_visard_record.sh --slam=trajectory.json <rc_visard_id>

Windows

   rc_visard_record.bat -slam trajectory.json <rc_visard_id>

Troubleshooting

The script writes "gc_stream is not found" or "gc_info is not found"

   "rc_genicam_api" is not installed properly.

The script writes "rcdynamics_stream is not found"

   "rc_dynamics_api" is not installed properly.

The script writes "Cannot find device: 01234567" or "Device 01234567
not found"

   The script could not find the

   rc_visard

    with the given serial number. Are serial number and network
   configuration correct?

The script writes "storeBuffer(): Received incomplete buffer"

   The network configuration may be slow or not optimized properly. Is
   the

   rc_visard

    connected via a 1 GBit/s wired ethernet connection? Please follow

   network optimization

   . Try to connect the

   rc_visard

    to the host directly.

The script writes "Device::open() failed"

   The

   rc_visard

    may have not booted completely yet, or another client may already
   be connected to the

   rc_visard

   .

The script writes "Cannot grab images"

   The network may not be configured properly. On Windows, the
   firewall may block the network connection. Temporarily disabling
   the firewall can help to pinpoint the source of the problem. Try to
   connect the

   rc_visard

    to the host directly.
