Obtain dense depth images with the RandomDot Projector

This tutorial shows how to set up the

rc_visard

 with the

RandomDot Projector

 to increase the density of depth images, as shown in

Fig. 12

. This is particularly recommended for objects and workspaces with
little or no visual texture.


Note: This tutorial assumes that the previous tutorial

  Tuning of Image Parameters

   has been completed.

Before we start

Before going through this tutorial, the following prerequisites should
be met.

The rc_visard's has the latest firmware image and the rc_visard's
license includes the IOControl component. This can be verified on the
Web GUI's System panel.

The RandomDot Projector, the network cable connecting it to the
rc_visard, and a 24 V, 60 W power supply are available.

Warning: Please ensure that a 24 V, 60 W power supply is used for
  powering

  rc_visard

   and RandomDot Projector together.

Note: The RandomDot Projector is controlled via the GPIO Out 1 of
  the

  rc_visard

   (cfr.

  IO and Projector Control

  ). In this tutorial, Out 1 mode refers to the RandomDot Projector
  mode.

Mounting the projector

Mounting the projector is described in detail in the projectorâ€™s
manual. Please see

Installation

.

Focusing the projector

For the focus configuration, one should turn the RandomDot Projector
permanently on. This can be done on the Web GUI's

IOControl

 panel available in the

Modules

 tab by setting the Out 1 mode to

High

.

Before focusing the projector, one needs to remove the lens protection
tube temporarily. Please unscrew the lens protection tube patently,
until the rings of the lens are visible. Now, the focus can be
adjusted by rotating one of the rings of the lens until the random dot
pattern is sharp (

Fig. 13

).


Configuring the aperture of the projector

For the aperture configuration, one should set the Exposure mode to

Auto

 in the Web GUI's

Camera

 panel.

The aperture controls the brightness of the image with the random dot
pattern and is adjusted by rotating one of the rings of the lens.

For its configuration, one should look at the

Confidence

 image in the Web GUI's

Depth Image

 panel and reduce the aperture as much as possible, while still
achieving good confidence over the whole image (i.e. as much white
pixels as possible,

Fig. 14

).


Selecting projector working mode

Single shot mode

If the projector is used in combination with rc_reason modules
(ItemPick, BoxPick or SilhouetteMatch) it can work in a single shot
mode. This means that it will only be activated on demand when the
module request a new depth images.

To enable this mode the Single + Out1 Acquisition Mode has to be
chosen in Depth Image tab.

Continuous mode

If the projector has to be used in continuous mode (stereo matching is
performed continuously without a trigger) the proper Out 1 mode in Web
GUI's

IOControl

  has to be set.

By default, the Out 1 mode of the

rc_visard

 is set to

Low

, i.e. projector is off.

Typically, the user needs to select the

ExposureAlternateActive

 Out 1 mode, in which the RandomDot Projector is on only for the
exposure time of every second image. Images with projected pattern are
used for computing depth images. Images without projected pattern can
be used as texture or for other image processing modules.

Configuring the exposure

As last step, one needs to go back to the Web GUI's

Camera

 panel and set the exposure time, either manually, as explained in the

Exposure and Gain Settings

 section of the

Tuning of Image Parameters

 tutorial, or automatically using the auto exposure. In this case, the
Auto Exposure Mode should be set to AdaptiveOut1 to avoid over
exposure due to the projector.

Note: If the exposure is configured to automatic mode, when the
  projector is turned on, it may take a few seconds until the exposure
  and gain settings become stable.

More optimization tricks

In some cases, the density of the depth image can be further optimized
by changing the focus of the RandomDot Projector to introduce some
blur in the projected pattern. This can be done while looking at the

Confidence

 image in the Web GUI's

Depth Image

 panel and trying to obtain as much white pixels as possible.

If the camera image includes highlights that are not reconstructed in
the depth image (

Fig. 15

), one can verify whether these highlights are introduced by the
RandomDot Projector (e.g. by simply turning the projector off). In
such case, we recommend to change the mounting of the RandomDot
Projector, in order to have a different angle between the

rc_visard

 and the projector itself. Reducing the aperture of the projector can
also help in removing highlights.

