Setting up the gripper

This tutorial shows how to set up a gripper for the CollisionCheck
component.

The gripper in the CollisionCheck component represents the collision
geometry of the real gripper mounted to the robot. That means, the
outer geometry of the gripper has to be modeled in a way that it
completely contains all parts of the robot's gripper, including
cables, connectors etc.

In this tutorial we will show how to model the sample gripper shown in

Fig. 55

.


The easiest way to create a gripper is via the

Web GUI

's

CollisionCheck

 tab. The

Grippers

 section lists all defined grippers and allows to edit and remove
them. To create a new gripper, click on "+ Add a new gripper".

A dialog window opens that allows creating the gripper. A 3D
visualization on the left helps to check the created gripper geometry.
Initially, it only shows the robot flange with a default radius and
the flange coordinate frame.


The gripper should be modeled in a way such that each element is
completely contained in a cylinder or box.


Flange radius

The flange radius is the outer radius of the robot's flange (see

Fig. 57

). It is used during a safety check if the "check_flange" parameter is
enabled (see

Check Flange

). It is required to set the flange radius even if the "check_flange"
functionality will not be used.

Gripper elements

The gripper is built in the direction from the flange to the Tool
Center Point (TCP) and consists of a list of elements which can be
cylinders and boxes. To add a new element, click on the + symbol in
the

Elements

 section (see

Fig. 56

).

The first element of our sample gripper is a vacuum generator. We
model it as a cylinder with the same height as the vacuum generator
and a radius corresponding to the maximal elongation of the vacuum
generator from the z axis of the flange coordinate frame. Since the
vacuum generator is mounted directly on the flange, the position of
the cylinder will be (0, 0, 0). It is important that the modeled
collision geometry completely includes the real gripper element to
prevent undetected collisions.

The second element of the gripper is a cylindrical connector part
which we will also model as a cylinder. We use the height of the
connector as height of the cylinder for the collision geometry. The
radius of the cylinder again is the maximal elongation from the flange
z axis. The position of this cylinder is also (0,0,0), which means it
is exactly below the previous element.

The last element of the gripper is the suction part. It will be
modeled as a box because it is elongated in one direction. We choose
the box dimensions such that the suction part is completely contained
in the box. It is important to check that the orientation of the
modeled box corresponds to the orientation of the real gripper
element. In this case, the longer side of the box is in the
x-direction of the flange coordinate frame. The position of the box
element is also (0,0,0) because it is mounted directly in the center
below the previous cylinder.

TCP position

Finally, we have to set the TCP position. By default, this position is
in the center of the bottom plane of the last gripper element. The
position of the TCP is used to decide whether a grasp is collision-
free or not: Whenever any part of the gripper would be in collision
with the load carrier while the TCP is at the grasp point, the grasp
will be detected as collision. Since suction grippers have to slightly
push against an object to grasp it, the TCP must be set to a position
inside the suction part, e.g. 2 mm. Thus, we set a TCP offset of
(0,0,-0.002), which means, that the TCP will be shifted along the
z-axis by 2 mm in negative direction.

Checking and saving the gripper

Below the TCP offset, the gripper creator displays the position of the
TCP in the flange coordinate frame.

Warning: The computed position of the TCP in the flange coordinate
  frame

  must be the same

   as the TCP position defined in the robot controller to ensure that
  the gripper geometry is modeled correctly with respect to the
  gripper height.


The last step of the gripper creation is to save the gripper. It will
now be shown in the

Grippers

 section of the

Web GUI

's

CollisionCheck

 tab and can be used in the ItemPick and BoxPick modules.

Troubleshooting

My gripper has elements that cannot be modeled in the Web GUI
