FAQs and troubleshooting

The base plane is not detected properly

AprilTag-based

Is the angle between the rc_visard's line of sight and the plane's
normal at most 10 degrees?

Are at least three AprilTags of the "36h11" family visible in the left
and right image?

Can the tags be detected with the regular AprilTag component (see
TagDetect)? If not, try with larger AprilTags.

Do the tags span a large triangle? See AprilTag-based base-plane
calibration.

Stereo-based

Is the angle between the rc_visard's line of sight and the plane's
normal at most 10 degrees?

Does the plane appear in the depth image? If not, follow Configuring
image parameters for ensuring a dense depth image.

Is the base plane the most distant plane that appears in the depth
image? If not, a ROI should be used to select the right plane, see
Stereo-based base-plane calibration.

An object is not detected properly

Is the base-plane calibration (still) correct? The "Template"
visualization on the Web GUI shows the size of the template that is
being tried to match. Does it match the actual size of the objects on
the left visualization?    Top: The base-plane calibration is
obviously wrong, since the size of the template (right) does not match
the size of the objects on the left. Bottom: The size of the template
matches the size of the objects.

Make sure that the projector is off or in ExposureAlternateActive mode
during object detection.

Are all relevant edges detected in the image? See parameter Edge
Sensitivity.

Try to increase the parameter Maximum Matching Distance.

Try to decrease the parameter Matching Percentile.

A timeout occurs

The error message indicates if the timeout occurred during matching or
refinement:

The timeout occurred during matching:  Are noise edges detected? If
so, decrease the parameter Edge Sensitivity.  Try to decrease the
parameter Maximum Matching Distance.  Try to increase the parameter
Matching Percentile.  Consider selecting a region of interest.  Try
with reduced quality.

The timeout occurred during refinement:  Decrease the parameter
Maximum Object Number.  Consider selecting a region of interest.

A lot of noise edges are detected

:

Try to decrease the parameter Edge Sensitivity.

Is the base-plane texture-less?

Make sure that the projector is off or in ExposureAlternateActive mode
during object detection.
