End-to-End System Accuracy Test

Introduction

Vision-guided robot systems can show positioning inaccuracies that
often stem from a degraded hand-eye calibration, typically caused by
small physical changes like camera movements. These inaccuracies
manifest as inconsistent positioning - objects may be gripped with an
offset that varies depending on their workspace position. While this
offset can be temporarily compensated for in a specific orientation,
the problem will reappear when objects are moved to different
locations.

This tutorial guides you through a systematic verification process to
assess your complete system's accuracy with KUKA robots and determine
if recalibration is necessary. The test uses AprilTag markers and a
precision pointing tool to verify the accuracy of the entire chain
from vision detection to physical robot positioning.

Required materials and prerequisites

Before starting the verification:

Ensure your robot cell is operational

Confirm that a hand-eye calibration has been performed

For details on the hand-eye calibration procedure, refer to the

Hand-eye calibration documentation

.

For this verification process, you will need:

A KUKA robot with a precision pointing tool (such as a dart tip)

A Roboception 3D camera

The verification sheet (printed in high quality)

A soft mounting surface (foam board or cardboard)

Verification sheet

Print the verification sheet in high quality, black and white. It is
available in:

A4 format

Letter format

The sheet displays two AprilTags positioned in opposite corners with a
center crosshair marker between them. Mount the printed sheet on an
planar but soft surface, such as foam board or cardboard. This allows
the pointing tip to safely penetrate the paper if positioning offsets
occur during verification.


Tool requirements and configuration

Required tool components

A precision pointing tool is required for this verification process.
This can be either a dedicated pointing tool (such as a dart tip)
mounted directly to the robot flange, or a pointing tip attached to a
flat surface that can be picked up using a suction gripper. The key
requirement is that the tool provides a precise, sharp point for
accurate measurements.

TCP configuration

Configure the tool settings according to your KUKA robot system
manual:

Define a new tool

Set the TCP to match the physical tip position

Configure the tool's mass and center of gravity

Save the tool configuration

Before proceeding, verify your TCP configuration:

Position the tool tip near a fixed reference point

Use the manual mode to rotate the tool around its Z-axis

The physical tip should remain perfectly stationary during rotation

If the tip moves in a circular pattern, reconfigure the TCP

Warning: TCP accuracy is crucial for reliable measurements. Even
  small offsets can significantly impact your verification results.

Measure application accuracy

Download the KUKA KRL sample program from: https://github.com/robocep
tion/eki_examples/tree/master/examples/MeasureApplicationAccuracy

Print the robot test grid and stick it to a plane surface (e.g.
cardboard).

Place the robot test grid in the robot cell and make sure it is
completely visible by the camera.

Run the sample program, which will move the TCP of the robot to the
robot test grid target in PTP motion.

The program will stop as soon the target position is reached.

Measure the deviation of the tool tip on the target with a ruler or a
caliper gauge.

Warning: Do not drive the robot in automatic mode or with high
  speed! Always reduce the speed of the robot and use the manual mode.

Warning: No collision checks are active. Please make sure the robot
  has a collision-free path to the target position.


It can also help to perform several measurements in the relevant
working areas (e.g. pick area, place area etc.) of your robot cell.
This might help in troubleshooting to see if the deviation is the same
or if it changes depending on the position of the robot test grid.

Note: To measure the translational deviation, the tool can be pushed
  into the cardboard by manually moving the robot in tool frame. To do
  this, move the tool in the direction of the Z axis until the tip of
  the tool pierces the paper. After removing the robot test grid from
  the cell, you can easily measure the deviation using a caliper
  gauge.

Interpreting results and next steps

A well-calibrated system will show consistent alignment between the
tool tip and center marker across all test positions.

If the tool tip consistently deviates from the center marker, consider
these potential causes:

Inaccurate TCP configuration

The most common cause of verification failures is an imprecise TCP
configuration. Verify your TCP setup using the rotation test described
in the TCP configuration section.

Inaccurate robot

While industrial robots typically offer excellent repeatability (sub-
millimeter range), their absolute accuracy may vary. This affects
positions provided by the vision system. Some robot manufacturers
offer world calibration services to improve absolute accuracy.

Robot accuracy vs. repeatability

Industrial robots excel at repeatability (consistently returning to
the same position), typically achieving sub-millimeter precision.
However, absolute accuracy (moving to exact world coordinates) can be
less precise. When a vision system provides target coordinates, this
absolute accuracy becomes crucial.

The difference between the robot's internal coordinate system and
real-world coordinates can lead to systematic offsets in your
verification measurements. Some robot manufacturers offer world
calibration services to minimize these discrepancies between the
robot's coordinate system and real-world coordinates.

Note: If you observe position-dependent deviations during
  verification (different offsets at different locations), this might
  indicate a world calibration issue rather than a hand-eye
  calibration problem.

If you have any questions or issues, please do not hesitate to contact
Roboception support with a detailed error description.
