BoxPick

This tutorial shows how to use the BoxPick module with Roboception's
URCap.

Before we start

This tutorial assumes that you are familiar with the

Generic rc_visard node

 and that a valid hand-eye calibration has been stored on the

rc_visard

 as described in

Hand-Eye Calibration

.

Overview

The boxpick functionality is available in the generic rc_visard node.
Please see

Generic rc_visard node

 in order to learn how to work with generic

rc_visard

 nodes.

The following functions are available for BoxPick:

ComputeGrasps: Triggers detection of boxes

GetNextGrasp: Gets the next grasp and size of a detected item after
detection has been triggered

GetLCPose: Returns the pose of the detected load carrier.

ComputeGrasps


It is mandatory to set the minimum and maximum length and width of the
item model. If necessary enter a load carrier id and/or a region of
interest id, but it's not mandatory.

If the CollisionCheck license is available on the sensor it is also
possible to set the gripper and pre grasp offset for the collision
check.

GetNextGrasp


This function requires that the ComputeGrasps has been triggered
before. It returns the next available item/box that was detected and
stores the pose in PolyScope's variable format (e.g. p[-0.300517,
-0.367119, -0.007997, -0.001221, 3.116277, 0.038892]). If no box is
detected, the call will return a zero pose (p[0,0,0,0,0,0]). It also
returns the size of the detected object in vector format (e.g. [0.04,
0.02] for a box with 4 x 2 centimeters)

If no reachable object is detected and the

Stop program when pose is not available

 checkbox is checked, a popup will appear and the program will be
terminated. If the checkbox is not checked, a zero pose
(p[0,0,0,0,0,0]) will be returned.

Note: When the

  Stop program when pose is not available

   checkbox is unchecked, the user has to catch the case when nothing
  is detected (the zero pose (p[0,0,0,0,0,0]) is returned). If this
  situation is not handled, it might lead to collision or undefined
  robot behavior.

With the

'Pose orientation'

 drop-down menu it is possible to change the strategy of calculating
the angle of the returned pose. There are four different options to
choose from:

Last waypoint orientation The detected orientation is ignored, instead
the orientation of the last waypoint is used.

Only RZ from detected pose For RZ the detected orientation is used, RX
and RY are based on the last waypoint orientation.

Only RX, RY from detected pose For RX and RY the detected orientation
is used, RZ is based on the last waypoint orientation.

Detected pose orientation The complete detected orientation is used.

GetBpLcPose


This function requires that ComputeGrasps has been triggered with a
load carrier id. It returns the pose of the detected load carrier. If
no load carrier is detected, a zero pose will be (p[0,0,0,0,0,0]) is
returned.

Note: When the

  Stop program when pose is not available

   checkbox is unchecked, the user has to catch the case when nothing
  is detected (the zero pose (p[0,0,0,0,0,0]) is returned). If this
  situation is not handled, it might lead to collision or undefined
  robot behavior.
