Sample program

This tutorial shows a sample program that uses the ItemPick Module.
Programs with similar structure can also be downloaded for the
SilhouetteMatch and BoxPick Modules.

This program will only work properly for an externally mounted sensor.
In case of a robot-mounted sensor, the computation should be triggered
when the robot is stationary, so the movement has to be stopped in the
observe position with the *Wait is_steady()* command.


Before we start

This tutorial assumes that the tutorial

Getting started with ItemPick

 has been completed, and that a valid hand eye calibration has been
stored on the

rc_visard

 as described in

Hand-eye calibration

.

Load the program

The picking sample programs can be downloaded from

here

. The programs can then be used and loaded as every standard program.

Setting up the program

Setting up the ItemPick module

To ensure proper working of the detection module it is necessary to
setup and test the parameters in the ComputeGrasp node. For details on
how to do this see

ItemPick

.

Depending on the application it also might be necessary to change the
pose orientation in the GetNextGrasp node. The variable name for the
pose should not be changed, since it will be used later in the
program.

Setting up gripper actions

If the program is left as it is, the robot will just go to the
computed poses, but no grasping action will be performed. Therefore,
it is necessary to specify how the gripper is working. Parts of the
programs that should be filled are marked with a comment.

Teaching poses

Two waypoints have to be taught before the application can be run:
observe_pose and drop_pose. Their positions in the workspace depend on
the cell layout and the ItemPick settings used to compute the grasps.

When the

rc_visard

 is mounted externally, depending on the scenario, there are different
requirements for the robot pose at the waypoints and during movement
between them:

If no load carrier or region of interest is being used, the robot must
be completely outside the field of view of the camera

If a load carrier is used during the detection, the robot must not
occlude the load carrier and the items to be grasped

If the region of interest is used during the detection, the robot must
be completely outside the region of interest and must not occlude the
items that should be grasped

For the robot-mounted sensor in the observe_pose all objects of
interest have to be in the field of view of the sensor.

Additionally the pre-pick distance can be changed by changing the
value of the 'prepick_offset' variable in the 'BeforeStart' tab.
