End-to-End System Accuracy Test

Introduction

Hand-eye calibrations can degrade over time due to small physical
changes in your system setup, such as slight camera movements. This
degradation typically manifests as inconsistent gripping behavior -
objects may be gripped with an offset that varies depending on their
workspace position. While this offset can be temporarily compensated
for in a specific orientation, the problem will reappear when the
objects are moved to different locations or orientations.

This tutorial guides you through a systematic verification process to
assess your complete system's accuracy and identify potential issues.
The test uses AprilTag markers and a precision pointing tool to verify
the accuracy of the entire chain from vision detection to physical
robot positioning.

Requirements and setup

Verification sheet

Print the verification sheet in high quality, black and white. It is
available in:

A4 format

Letter format

The sheet displays two AprilTags positioned in opposite corners with a
center crosshair marker between them. Mount the printed sheet on an
planar but soft surface, such as foam board or cardboard. This allows
the pointing tip to safely penetrate the paper if positioning offsets
occur during verification.


Pointing tool requirements

For optimal accuracy, we strongly recommend using a rigid, dedicated
pointing tool with a sharp tip (such as a dart tip) mounted directly
to the robot flange. While it is possible to use a pointing tip
attached to a flat surface for pickup with a suction gripper, this
approach should only be used if the tip's stability can be guaranteed,
for example through a multi-cup suction gripper setup. The key
requirement is that the tool provides a precise, sharp point that
remains completely stable during measurements.

TCP configuration

Configure the tool settings in your robot system:

Navigate to Installation → General → TCP in the UR menu

Create a new TCP named 'Pointing Tool'

Configure the TCP transformation to match the physical tip position

Navigate to Installation → General → Payload

Use the built-in payload measurement function

Save the configuration as 'Pointing Tool'

Note: For more information on TCP and payload configuration, please
  refer to the official Universal Robots YouTube tutorial on

  Tool Configuration: TCP, orientation, payload & center of gravity

  .

Before proceeding, verify your TCP configuration:

Position the tool tip near a fixed reference point

Rotate the tool around its Z-axis by navigating to the Move Menu,
selecting Feature Tool and then changing the TCP Orientation

The physical tip should remain perfectly stationary during rotation.
If the tip moves in a circular pattern, reconfigure the TCP

Warning: TCP accuracy is crucial for reliable measurements. Even
  small offsets can significantly impact your verification results.

Verification process

The verification process combines vision and robotics to test the
hand-eye calibration accuracy. First, the vision system detects both
AprilTags on the verification sheet to establish their precise
positions. Using these positions, the robot calculates the exact
center point between the tags. The robot then moves the pointing
tool's tip to this calculated position. If the hand-eye calibration is
accurate, the physical tip of the tool will align perfectly with the
printed center crosshair marker on the sheet.

Program setup and execution

Download the verification program: End-to-end Accuracy Check

Import the program into your UR robot

Place the verification sheet in your workspace

Execute the program

Verify the pin alignment with the center marker


Testing multiple positions

Test the calibration in various configurations:

Different positions across the workspace

Various orientations

Multiple heights (if applicable)

Test at least 5-6 different positions to ensure comprehensive
verification.

Interpreting results and next steps

The verification is successful when the pin consistently touches the
center marker regardless of sheet position or orientation. Small
offsets of less than 2 mm may be acceptable depending on the
application requirements.

If you observe one of the following points, the verification has
failed:

Consistent offset from center marker

Position-dependent accuracy variations

Different results based on sheet orientation

If verification fails, perform a complete recalibration using the

Hand-eye calibration

 procedure.
