Configuring ItemPick for bin picking

This tutorial shows how to configure the ItemPick module to work in a
bin-picking application. More specifically, the bin (or so-called Load
Carrier) is configured in ItemPick and detected in the scene, in order
to compute grasps only for items inside the bin itself.

The tutorial covers all the steps from configuration of a load carrier
up to getting grasps for items inside the load carrier. For this, we
will call the

ItemPick services

 using the

rc_visard

's

REST-API interface

. This can be done in

Swagger UI

, in command lines or scripts using

curl

, and programmatically using a client library (e.g. from a robot
controller). Here we focus on the first two options.

Before we start

This tutorials assumes that the previous tutorial

Getting started with ItemPick

 has been completed.

In order to go through this tutorial, a bin or so-called load carrier
should be available (see

Configuring the load carrier

).

Setting up the scene

The load carrier should be placed in the field of view of the sensor.
Optimally, the sensor should have a clear view onto all objects in the
bin without any occlusion by its walls -- as shown in the sample setup
below.


The placement should also ensure that the rim of of the load carrier
is visible in the depth image. Small occlusions of the rim are
acceptable, as long as all edges are at least partially visible. If
this is not the case, one can follow the recommendations for

tuning camera and image parameters

.

Configuring the load carrier

The configuration of the load carrier is described in detail in

Configuring the load carrier

.

Detecting the load carrier

After the load carrier has been configured, it is important to check
that ItemPick can detect the load carrier in the scene. The Web GUI's
Modules ‣ ItemPick page offers a

Try Out

 section for this purpose. One simply needs to specify the respective
load carrier ID and hit the Detect Grasp Points button. As for the
REST-API, ItemPick offers a

detect_load_carriers

 service to trigger such detections.

REST-API request for detecting my-load-carrier1

   REST-API

   To trigger the "detect_load_carriers" service via the REST-API, one
   needs to send a PUT request to the URL "http://<rc-visard-
   ip>/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/detect_load_carriers", where
   "<rc-visard-ip>" should be replaced by the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

   .

   The PUT body should include the following data, in JSON:

      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_ids": [
              "my-load-carrier1"
          ]
        }
      }

   Swagger UI

   The Swagger UI for putting a service request is located at http://
   <rc_visard_ip>/api/swagger/index.html#!/nodes/put_nodes_node_servi
   ces_service, where <rc-visard-ip> should be replaced by the actual
   IP of the rc_visard.

   The following values are required to fill the request to the REST-
   API:  node rc_itempick  service detect_load_carriers  service args
   {   "args": {     "pose_frame": "camera",     "load_carrier_ids": [
   "my-load-carrier1"     ]   } }

   curl (Linux)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90").

      curl -X PUT "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/detect_load_carriers" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
      "{  \
        \"args\": { \
          \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", \
          \"load_carrier_ids\": [ \
            \"my-load-carrier1\" \
          ] \
        } \
      }"

   curl (Windows)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "set "RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90"") and the

   curl

    command is in the path.

      curl.exe -X PUT "http://%RC_VISARD_IP%/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/detect_load_carriers" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d ^
      "{  ^
        \"args\": { ^
          \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", ^
          \"load_carrier_ids\": [ ^
            \"my-load-carrier1\" ^
          ] ^
        } ^
      }"

   PowerShell

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "$RC_VISARD_IP="10.0.2.90"").

      Invoke-RestMethod "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/detect_load_carriers" -ContentType 'application/json' -Method Put -Body '
      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_ids": [
              "my-load-carrier1"
          ]
        }
      }' | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 6

Detection results -- no matter whether triggered via Web GUI or REST-
API -- are visualized in the Web GUI's Modules ‣ ItemPick page as

Load Carriers

 image. Sample detection results for

my-load-carrier1

 are shown below. The detected load carrier is colored in blue, while
its content is highlighted in green if inside the load carrier and in
red if above the rim (overfill).


Note: While the "detect_load_carriers" service supports a list of
  "load_carrier_ids" as input argument, the current implementation
  only accepts one load carrier ID in the list.

Note: All points that are not colored in the load carrier
  visualization image are not used for grasp computation. This can
  happen if the depth image includes missing data or if the items
  stick out of the bin by more than 10 cm.

Computing grasps inside a load carrier

Once the load carrier is configured and detectable in the scene,
ItemPick can be used to compute grasps only for objects that are
inside the bin.

To this purpose, the additional argument "load_carrier_id" should be
added to the request to the REST-API for the "compute_grasps" service.
As explained before, this is also possible in the

Try Out

 section of the Web GUI's Modules ‣ ItemPick page.

Request to the REST-API for getting grasps inside my-load-carrier1

   REST-API

   To trigger the "compute_grasp" service via the REST-API, one needs
   to send a PUT request to the URL "http://<rc-visard-
   ip>/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasp", where "<rc-
   visard-ip>" should be replaced by the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

   .

   The PUT body should include the following data, in JSON:

      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
          "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
          "suction_surface_width": 0.02
        }
      }

   Swagger UI

   The Swagger UI for putting a service request is located at http://
   <rc_visard_ip>/api/swagger/index.html#!/nodes/put_nodes_node_servi
   ces_service, where <rc-visard-ip> should be replaced by the actual
   IP of the rc_visard.

   The following values are required to fill the request to the REST-
   API:  node rc_itempick  service compute_grasps  service args  {
   "args": {     "pose_frame": "camera",     "load_carrier_id": "my-
   load-carrier1",     "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
   "suction_surface_width": 0.02   } }

   curl (Linux)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90").

      curl -X PUT "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
      "{ \
          \"args\": { \
              \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", \
              \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", \
              \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, \
              \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02 \
          } \
      }"

   curl (Windows)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "set RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90") and the

   curl

    command is in the path.

      curl.exe -X PUT "http://%RC_VISARD_IP%/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d ^
      "{ ^
          \"args\": { ^
              \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", ^
              \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", ^
              \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, ^
              \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02 ^
          } ^
      }"

   PowerShell

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "$RC_VISARD_IP="10.0.2.90"").

      Invoke-RestMethod "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -ContentType 'application/json' -Method Put -Body '
      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
          "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
          "suction_surface_width": 0.02
        }
      }' | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 6

Computing collision free grasps

The

Getting started with CollisionCheck

 tutorial shows how to integrate ItemPick with the CollisionCheck
module. When the collision checking is enabled, all detected grasp
points are checked for collisions between the gripper geometry and the
load carrier.

Note: The x axis of a grasp computed by ItemPick corresponds to the
  longest axis of the

  grasp ellipse

  . When configuring a gripper in the CollisionCheck module, the x
  axis of the gripper should be set along the longest gripper
  elongation, in order to match the orientation of the computed
  grasps.

Request to the REST-API for getting collision free grasps inside my-
load-carrier1 with gripper my-gripper

   REST-API

   To trigger the "compute_grasp" service via the REST-API, one needs
   to send a PUT request to the URL "http://<rc-visard-
   ip>/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasp", where "<rc-
   visard-ip>" should be replaced by the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

   .

   The PUT body should include the following data, in JSON:

      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
          "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
          "suction_surface_width": 0.02,
          "collision_detection": {
            "gripper_id": "my-gripper"
          }
        }
      }

   Swagger UI

   The Swagger UI for putting a service request is located at http://
   <rc_visard_ip>/api/swagger/index.html#!/nodes/put_nodes_node_servi
   ces_service, where <rc-visard-ip> should be replaced by the actual
   IP of the rc_visard.

   The following values are required to fill the request to the REST-
   API:  node rc_itempick  service compute_grasps  service args  {
   "args": {     "pose_frame": "camera",     "load_carrier_id": "my-
   load-carrier1",     "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
   "suction_surface_width": 0.02,     "collision_detection": {
   "gripper_id": "my-gripper"     }   } }

   curl (Linux)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90").

      curl -X PUT "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
      "{ \
          \"args\": { \
              \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", \
              \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", \
              \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, \
              \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02, \
              \"collision_detection\": {  \
                \"gripper_id\": \"my-gripper\" \
              } \
          } \
      }"

   curl (Windows)

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "set RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90") and the

   curl

    command is in the path.

      curl.exe -X PUT "http://%RC_VISARD_IP%/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d ^
      "{ ^
          \"args\": { ^
              \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", ^
              \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", ^
              \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, ^
              \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02, ^
              \"collision_detection\": { ^
                \"gripper_id\": \"my-gripper\" ^
              } ^
          } ^
      }"

   PowerShell

   The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is
   set to the actual IP of the

   rc_visard

    (e.g. "$RC_VISARD_IP="10.0.2.90"").

      Invoke-RestMethod "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -ContentType 'application/json' -Method Put -Body '
      {
        "args": {
          "pose_frame": "camera",
          "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
          "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
          "suction_surface_width": 0.02,
          "collision_detection": {
            "gripper_id": "my-gripper"
          }
        }
      }' | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 6

Computing grasps inside a compartment in the load carrier

In some cases it is desirable to select a compartment inside the load
carrier and only get grasps for items inside this compartment. The
"compute_grasps" service includes an optional argument
"load_carrier_compartment" that can be used to this purpose.

Note: The "load_carrier_compartment" argument can not be specified
  in the

  Try Out

   section of Web GUI's Modules ‣ ItemPick page.

The compartment is a box whose "pose" is defined with respect to the
load carrier reference frame. In this section we show how to select
the compartment in

Fig. 23

.


The compartment box dimensions are computed from the load carrier
inner dimensions:

   \left(\frac{\text{inner_dimensions.x}}{2},
   \text{inner_dimensions.y}, \text{inner_dimensions.z}\right)

The load carrier reference frame is located at the center of the load
carrier outer box. To move from the load carrier reference frame to
the compartment center, the following translation needs to be applied:

   \left(\frac{\text{inner_dimensions.x}}{4}, 0, \frac{\text{outer_di
   mensions.z}-\text{inner_dimensions.z}}{2}\right)

Since the compartment volume is intersected with the load carrier
inner volume, the box z dimension can also be set to the load carrier
outer dimension, without applying any translation along z.

The code below shows how to place a "compute_grasps" request for items
inside this compartment of

my-load-carrier1

.

REST-API

To trigger the "compute_grasp" service via the REST-API, one needs to
send a PUT request to the URL "http://<rc-visard-
ip>/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasp", where "<rc-
visard-ip>" should be replaced by the actual IP of the

rc_visard

.

The PUT body should include the following data, in JSON:

   {
     "args": {
       "pose_frame": "camera",
       "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
       "load_carrier_compartment": {
         "box": {
           "x": 0.285,
           "y": 0.37,
           "z": 0.22
         },
         "pose": {
           "position": {
             "x": 0.1425,
             "y": 0,
             "z": 0
           },
           "orientation": {
             "x": 0,
             "y": 0,
             "z": 0,
             "w": 1
           }
         }
       },
       "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
       "suction_surface_width": 0.02
     }
   }

Swagger UI

The Swagger UI for putting a service request is located at http://<rc
_visard_ip>/api/swagger/index.html#!/nodes/put_nodes_node_services_se
rvice, where <rc-visard-ip> should be replaced by the actual IP of the
rc_visard.

The following values are required to fill the request to the REST-API:
node rc_itempick  service compute_grasps  service args  {   "args": {
"pose_frame": "camera",     "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
"load_carrier_compartment": {       "box": {         "x": 0.285,
"y": 0.37,         "z": 0.22       },       "pose": {
"position": {           "x": 0.1425,           "y": 0,           "z":
0         },         "orientation": {           "x": 0,           "y":
0,           "z": 0,           "w": 1         }       }     },
"suction_surface_length": 0.02,     "suction_surface_width": 0.02   }
}

curl (Linux)

The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is set
to the actual IP of the

rc_visard

 (e.g. "RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90").

   curl -X PUT "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
   "{ \
       \"args\": { \
           \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", \
           \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", \
           \"load_carrier_compartment\": { \
             \"box\": { \
               \"x\": 0.285, \
               \"y\": 0.37, \
               \"z\": 0.22 \
             }, \
             \"pose\": { \
               \"position\": { \
                 \"x\": 0.1425, \
                 \"y\": 0, \
                 \"z\": 0 \
               }, \
               \"orientation\": { \
                 \"x\": 0, \
                 \"y\": 0, \
                 \"z\": 0, \
                 \"w\": 1 \
               } \
             } \
           }, \
           \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, \
           \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02 \
       } \
   }"

curl (Windows)

The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is set
to the actual IP of the

rc_visard

 (e.g. "set RC_VISARD_IP=10.0.2.90") and the

curl

 command is in the path.

   curl.exe -X PUT "http://%RC_VISARD_IP%/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -H  "accept: application/json" -H  "Content-Type: application/json" -d ^
   "{ ^
       \"args\": { ^
           \"pose_frame\": \"camera\", ^
           \"load_carrier_id\": \"my-load-carrier1\", ^
           \"load_carrier_compartment\": { ^
             \"box\": { ^
               \"x\": 0.285, ^
               \"y\": 0.37, ^
               \"z\": 0.22 ^
             }, ^
             \"pose\": { ^
               \"position\": { ^
                 \"x\": 0.1425, ^
                 \"y\": 0, ^
                 \"z\": 0 ^
               }, ^
               \"orientation\": { ^
                 \"x\": 0, ^
                 \"y\": 0, ^
                 \"z\": 0, ^
                 \"w\": 1 ^
               } ^
             } ^
           }, ^
           \"suction_surface_length\": 0.02, ^
           \"suction_surface_width\": 0.02 ^
       } ^
   }"

PowerShell

The following command assumes that the variable "RC_VISARD_IP" is set
to the actual IP of the

rc_visard

 (e.g. "$RC_VISARD_IP="10.0.2.90"").

   Invoke-RestMethod "http://$RC_VISARD_IP/api/v1/nodes/rc_itempick/services/compute_grasps" -ContentType 'application/json' -Method Put -Body '
   {
     "args": {
       "pose_frame": "camera",
       "load_carrier_id": "my-load-carrier1",
       "load_carrier_compartment": {
         "box": {
           "x": 0.285,
           "y": 0.37,
           "z": 0.22
         },
         "pose": {
           "position": {
             "x": 0.1425,
             "y": 0,
             "z": 0
           },
           "orientation": {
             "x": 0,
             "y": 0,
             "z": 0,
             "w": 1
           }
         }
       },
       "suction_surface_length": 0.02,
       "suction_surface_width": 0.02
     }
   }' | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 6

Troubleshooting

The load carrier rim is not visible in the depth image

The load carrier is not detected or not detected robustly

The load carrier is deformed or deformable

The load carrier is not on a horizontal surface

The load carrier floor is detected as load carrier content

Objects on the load carrier floor are not detected as load carrier
content
